.TH BTORRENT 1 "2026-04-15" "1.0.2" "BitTorrent Manual"
.SH NAME
btorrent \- a concurrent BitTorrent client for Linux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B btorrent
[\fB\-d\fR] \fItorrent\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.PP
.B btorrent
[\fB\-i\fR|\fB\-c\fR] \fItorrent\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B btorrent
is a command-line BitTorrent client for Linux. It supports DHT peer discovery,
magnet links, seeding, and peer exchange (PEX).
.SH MODES
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-download
Download a torrent file or magnet link.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-inspect
Print torrent metadata without downloading.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-check
Verify an existing download against piece hashes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " \fIpath\fR"
Output directory (default: torrent name).
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " \fIN\fR"
Listen port (default: 6881).
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-peers " \fIN\fR"
Maximum concurrent peers (default: 50).
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-timeout " \fIN\fR"
Per-peer timeout in seconds (default: 5).
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-pipeline " \fIN\fR"
Block pipeline depth (default: 64).
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-seed
Keep seeding after download completes.
.TP
.BR \-U ", " \-\-ul " \fIN\fR"
Upload limit in KiB/s.
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-dl " \fIN\fR"
Download limit in KiB/s.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Minimal output (progress bar only).
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose logging.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-log " \fIfile\fR"
Write log to file.
.TP
.BR \-j ", " \-\-json
JSON output (inspect mode only).
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version.
.SH EXAMPLES
Download a torrent:
.PP
.nf
.ft C
btorrent -d ubuntu.torrent
.ft P
.fi
.PP
Download to specific directory with seeding:
.PP
.nf
.ft C
btorrent -d ubuntu.torrent -o ~/Downloads -S
.ft P
.fi
.PP
Inspect metadata:
.PP
.nf
.ft C
btorrent -i ubuntu.torrent -j | jq .
.ft P
.fi
.PP
Download a magnet link:
.PP
.nf
.ft C
btorrent -d 'magnet:?xt=urn:btih:...'
.ft P
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.btorrent/
Configuration directory (future use).
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at <https://github.com/alsullam/Btorrent/issues>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR curl (1),
.BR tracker (3)
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Saeed Hany <saeed@saeeedhany.github.io>
